=head1 NAME

Swish-e - A Search Engine

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    swish [-e] [-i dir file ... ] [-S system] [-c file] [-f file] [-l] [-v (num)]
    swish -w word1 word2 ... [-f file1 file2 ...] \
          [-P phrase_delimiter] [-p prop1 ...] [-s sortprop1 [asc|desc] ...] \
          [-m num] [-t str] [-d delim] [-H (num)] [-x output_format]
    swish -k (char|*) [-f file1 file2 ...]
    swish -M index1 index2 ... outputfile
    swish -N /path/to/compare/file
    swish -V

See the the SWISH-RUN(1) man page for details on run-time options.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Swish-e is Simple Web Indexing System for Humans - Enhanced. Swish-e can
quickly and easily index directories of files or remote web sites and
search the generated indexes.

Swish-e is extremely fast in both indexing and searching, highly
configurable, and can be seamlessly integrated with existing web sites
to maintain a consistent design. Swish-e can index web pages, but can
just as easily index text files, mailing list archives, or data stored
in a relational database.

Swish is designed to index small to medium sized collection of
documents, Although a few users are indexing over a million documents,
typical usage is more often in the tens of thousands. Currently, Swish-e
only indexes eight bit character encodings.

=head1 DOCUMENTATION


Documentation is provided as HTML pages installed in
$prefix/share/doc/swish-e where $prefix is /usr/local if building from
source, or /usr if installed as part of a package from your OS vendor.
Under Windows $prefix is selected at installation time.

Documentation is also available on-line at http://swish-e.org.

A subset of the documentation is installed as system man pages as well.
The following man pages should be installed:

=over 4

=item swish-e(1)

This man page.

=item SWISH-CONFIG(1)

Defines options that can be used in a configuration file.

=item SWISH-RUN(1)

Describes the run-time options and switches.

=item SWISH-FAQ(1)

Answers to commonly asked questions.

=item SWISH-LIBRARY(1)

API for the Swish-e search library.  Applications can link against this
library.

=back

=head1 SUPPORT

Support for Swish-e is provide via the Swish-e discussion list.  See
http://swish-e.org for information.









