=head1 NAME

SWISH-BUGS - List of bugs known in Swish-e

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This file contains a list of bugs reported or known in Swish-e.  If
you find a bug listed here you do not need to report it as a bug.  But feel
free to bug the developers about it on the Swish-e discussion list.


=head1 Bugs in Swish-e version 2.4

=over 4

=item Stopwords not removed from query with Soundex

In dev version 2.5.2 noticed that stopwords are not removed from the query
when using Soundex.  The plan is to rewrite the parser soon... (July 2004)

=item * Wild card searching can be very slow

Wild card searching needs to be optimized.

Here's a three letter search:

  $ swish-e -w 'tra*' -m1
  # Number of hits: 99952
  # Search time: 5.424 seconds

Two letters:

  $ swish-e -w 'tr*' -m1
  # Number of hits: 100000
  # Search time: 10.563 seconds

Single letter search:

  $ swish-e -w 't*' -m1
  # Number of hits: 100000
  # Search time: 510.939 seconds

and used about 280MB or RAM.

This is a potential for a DoS attack.  If you have a large index you may wish to filter
out single character wild cards.


=item * Character Encodings

The XML parser (Expat) returns UTF-8 data to swish-e.  Therefore, the XML
parser should only be used for parsing US-ASCII encoded text.

The XML2 & HTML2 parsers (Libxml2) converts characters from UTF-8 to 8859-1 encodings before indexing
and writing properties.  Indexing non-8859-1 data may result in invalid character mappings.

These issues will be resolved soon.

=item *

Phrase search failes with DoubleMetaphone

DoubleMetaphone searching can produce two search words for a single query
word.  The words are expanded to (word1 OR word2), but that fails in a
phrase query:   "some phrase (word1 or word2) here"

swish-e query parser is due for a rewrite, and this could be resolved then.

    Reported: August 20, 2002 - moseley

=item *

Merging

merge.c does not check for matching stopwords or buzzwords in each index.

History:

    Reported: September 3, 2002 - moseley


=item *

ResultSortOrder

ResultSort order is not used (and is not documented).  The problem is that
the data passed to Compare_Properties() does not have access to the
ResultSortOrder table.

=back

History:

    Reported: September 3, 2002 - moseley



=head1 Document Info

$Id$

.



