=head1 NAME

SWISH-RUN - Running Swish-e and Command Line Switches

=head1 OVERVIEW

The Swish-e program is controlled by command line arguments (called
I<switches>).  Often, it is run manually from a shell (command
prompt), or from a program such as a CGI script that passes the command
line arguments to swish.

Note: A number of the command line switches may be specified in the
Swish-e configuration file specified with the C<-c> command line argument.
Please see L<SWISH-CONFIG|SWISH-CONFIG> for a complete description of
available configuration file directives.

There are two basic operating modes of Swish-e: indexing and searching.
There are command line arguments that are unique to each mode, and
others that apply to both (yet may have different meaning depending on
the operating mode).  These command line arguments are listed below,
grouped by:

L<INDEXING|/"INDEXING"> -- describes the command line arguments used
while indexing.

L<SEARCHING|/"SEARCHING"> -- lists the command line arguments used while
searching.

L<OTHER SWITCHES|/"OTHER SWITCHES"> -- lists switches that don't apply
to searching or indexing.

Beginning with Swish-e version 2.1, you may embed its search engine into
your applications.  Please see L<SWISH-LIBRARY|SWISH-LIBRARY>.


=head1 INDEXING

Swish-e indexing is initiated by passing I<command line arguments> to
swish.  The command line arguments used for I<searching> are described
in L<SEARCHING|/"SEARCHING">.  Also, see L<SWISH-SEARCH|SWISH-SEARCH>
for examples of searching with Swish-e.

Swish-e usage:

    swish-e [-i dir file ... ] [-c file] [-f file] [-l] \
            [-v (num)] [-S method(fs|http|prog)] [-N path]

The C<-h> switch (help) will list the available Swish-e command line
arguments:

    swish-e -h

Typically, most if not all indexing settings are placed in a configuration
file (specified with the C<-c> switch).  Once the configuration file is
setup indexing is initiated as:

    swish-e -c /path/to/config/file

See L<SWISH-CONFIG|SWISH-CONFIG> for information on the configuration
file.

Security Note: If the swish binary is named F<swish-search> then swish
will not allow any operation that would cause swish to write to the
index file.

When indexing it may be advisable to index to a temporary file, and
then after indexing has successfully completed rename the file to the
final location.  This is especially important when replacing an index
that is currently in use.

    swish-e -c swish.config -f index.tmp
    [check return code from swish or look for err: output]
    mv index.tmp index.swish-e


=head2 Indexing Command Line Arguments

=over 4

=item -i *directories and/or files* (input file)

This specifies the directories and/or files to index. Directories will be
indexed recursively.  This is typically specified in the L<configuration
file|SWISH-CONFIG> with the B<IndexDir> directive instead of on the
command line.  Use of this switch overrides the configuration file
settings.

=item -S [fs|http|prog] (document source/access mode)

This specifies the method to use for accessing documents to index.
Can be either C<fs> for local indexing via the file system (the default),
C<http> for spidering, or C<prog> for reading documents from an external program.

Located in the C<conf> directory are example configuration files that demonstrate
indexing with the different document source methods.

See the L<SWISH-FAQ|SWISH-FAQ> for a discussion on the different indexing methods, and the difference
between spidering with the http method vs. using the file system method.

=over 4

=item fs - file system 

The C<fs> method simply reads files from a local (or networked) drive.  This is the default
method if the C<-S> switch is not specified.
See L<SWISH-CONFIG|SWISH-CONFIG> for configuration
directives specific to the C<fs> method.

=item http - spider a web server

The C<http> method is used to spider web servers.  It uses an included helper
program called F<swishspider> located in the F<src> directory.  Swish needs to be able to locate
this program when using the C<http> method. See L<SWISH-CONFIG|SWISH-CONFIG> for configuration
directives specific to the C<http> method.

By default, swish looks in the current directory for the F<swishspider> program, or in the directory
specified by the C<SwishSpiderDir> directive.  The first line of the F<swishspider> program
(the "shebang" line) must point to the location of the Perl program (if your operating system uses it).

Security Note: Under Windows swish passes the URLs fetched from remote documents through the shell (swish
uses the system() command for running F<swishspider> under Windows), and this may be considered
an additional security risk.

The C<http> method is depreciated (or at least not very well appreciated).  Consider using
the C<prog> method described below for spidering.  There's a spider program available in the
F<prog-bin> directory for use with the C<prog> method.

By default, this method of spidering only indexes files that have a content type of "text/*"
(e.g. text/plain, text/html, text/xml).  You should use C<DefaultContents> and C<IndexContents> to
map file extensions to parsers used by swish (e.g.  C<IndexContents HTML* .html .htm>).

The Swish-e distribution includes perl modules to make converting non-text documents into a format
that Swish-e can parse easy.  The helper script F<swishspider> will use these modules if installed.  These
modules only provide an interface to programs that do the conversion.  For example, you will need to
download and install the "catdoc" program to convert MSWord documents into text for indexing.
Please see F<filters/README> to see how to use this filter system.

=item prog - general purpose access method

The C<prog> method is new to Swish-e version 2.2.  It's designed as a general
purpose method to feed documents to swish from an external program.

For example, the external program can read a database (e.g. MySQL), spider a web
server, or convert documents from one format to another (e.g. pdf to html).  Or,
you can simply use it to read the files of the file system (like C<-S fs>), yet provide
you with full control of what files are indexed.

The external program name to run is passed to swish either by the
L<IndexDir|SWISH-CONFIG/"item_IndexDir"> directive, or via the C<-i> option.  

The program specified should be an absolute path as swish-e will attempt to stat() the
program to make sure it exists.  Swish does this to help in error reporting.

If the program specified with -i or IndexDir is not an absolute path (i.e. does not start
with "/" or ".") then swish-e will prepend the "libexecdir" directory defined during
configuration.  Typically, libexecdir is set to "$prefix/lib/swish-e"
(/usr/local/lib/swish-e), but is platform and installation dependent.  Running swish-e -h
will report the directory.

For example, the -S prog program "spider.pl" is a Perl helper program for use with -S prog
and is installed in libexecdir.

    IndexDire spider.pl
    SwishProgParameters default http://localhost/index.html

and swish-e will find spider.pl in libexecdir.

Additional parameters may be passed to the external program via the
L<SwishProgParameters|SWISH-CONFIG/"item_SwishProgParameters"> directive.
In the example above swish-e will pass two parameters to spider.pl, "default" and 
"http://localhost/index.html".

A special name "stdin" may be used with C<-i> or L<IndexDir|SWISH-CONFIG/"item_IndexDir">
which tells swish to read from standard input instead of from an external program.  See
example below.

The external program prints to standard output (which swish captures)
a set of headers followed by the content of the file to index.  The output looks similar to
an email message or a HTTP document returned by a web server in that it includes name/value pairs
of headers, a blank line, and the content.

The content length is determined by a content-length header supplied to swish by the
program; there is no "end of record" character or flag sent between documents. Therefore, it
is critical that the content-length header is correct.  This is a common source of errors.

One advantage of this method (over using filters, for example) is that the external program
is run only once for the entire indexing job, instead of once for every document.  This
avoids forking and creating a new process for every document, and makes a huge difference
when your external program is something like perl that has a large startup cost.

Here's a simple example written in Perl:

    #!/usr/local/bin/perl -w
    use strict;
    
    # Build a document
    my $doc = <<EOF;
    <html>
    <head>
        <title>Document Title</title>
    </head>
        <body>
            This is the text.
        </body>
    </html>
    EOF
    
    
    # Prepare the headers for swish
    my $path = 'Example.file';
    my $size = length $doc;
    my $mtime = time;
    
    # Output the document (to swish)
    print <<EOF;
    Path-Name: $path
    Content-Length: $size
    Last-Mtime: $mtime
    Document-Type: HTML*
    
    EOF
    
        print $doc;

The external program passes to swish a header.  The header is separated from
the body of the document with a blank line.  The available headers are:

=over 4

=item Path-Name:

This is the name of the file you are indexing. This can be any string, so for example it could
be an ID of a record in a database, a URL or a simple file name.

This header is required.

=item Content-Length:

This header specifies the length in bytes of the document that follows the header.
This length must be exactly the length of the document -- do not make the mistake of adding
an extra line feed at the end of the document.

This header is required.


=item Last-Mtime:

Thi parameter is the last modification time of the file, and must
be a time stamp (seconds since the Epoch on your platform).

This header is not required.

=item Document-Type:

You may override swish's determination of document type (C<Indexcontents>)
by using the C<Document-Type:> header.  The document type is used to select which
parser Swish-e uses to parse the document's contents.

For example, a spider program might map the content-type returned from a web server to
one of the types Swish-e understands.  For example,

    my $doc_type = 'HTML*' if $response->content_type =~ m!text/html!'

This header is not required.

=back

The above example program only returns one document and exits, which is not very useful.  Normally,
your program would read data from some source, such as files or a database, format as
XML, HTML, or text, and pass them to swish, one after another.  The C<Content-Length:> header
tells swish where each document ends -- there is not any special "end of record" character or
marker.

To index with the above example you need to make sure that the program is executable
(and that the path to perl is correct), and then call swish telling to run in C<prog>
mode, and the name of the program to use for input.

    % chmod 755 example.pl
    % ./swish-e -S prog -i ./example.pl

Programs can and should be tested prior to running swish. For example:

    % ./example.pl > test.out

A few more useful example programs are provided in the swish-e distribution
located in the F<prog-bin> directory.  Some include documentation:

    % cd prog-bin
    % perldoc spider.pl

Others are small examples that include comments:

    % cd prog-bin
    % less DirTree.pl

The F<spider.pl> program can be used as a replacement for the F<-S http> method.  It is
far more feature-rich and offers much more control over indexing.

If you use the special program name "stdin" with C<-i> or L<IndexDir|SWISH-CONFIG/"item_IndexDir">
then swish-e will read from standard input instead of from a program.  For example:

    % ./example.pl /path/to/data --count=1000 | ./swish-e -S prog -i stdin

This is basically the same as using a swish-e configuration file of:

    SwishProgParameters /path/to/data --count=1000
    IndexDir ./example.pl

in a config file and running

    % ./swish-e -S prog -c swish.conf

This gives an easy way to run swish without a configuration file with a C<-S prog> program
that requires parameters.  It also means you can capture data to a file and then index
more once with the same data:

    % ./example.pl /path/to/data --count=1000 > docs.txt
    % cat docs.txt | ./swish-e -S prog -i stdin -c normal_index
    % cat docs.txt | ./swish-e -S prog -i stdin -c fuzzy_index
    

Using "stdin" might also be useful for programs that call swish (instead of swish calling the
program).

(The reason "stdin" is used instead of the more common "-" dash is due to the rotten way
swish parses the command line.  This should be fixed in the future.)

The C<prog> method bypasses some of the configuration parameters available
to the file system method -- settings such as
C<IndexOnly>, C<FileRules>, C<FileMatch> and C<FollowSymLinks>
are ignored when using the C<prog> method.  It's expected that these operations
are better accomplished in the external program before passing the document onto swish.  In
other words, when using the C<prog> method, only send the documents to swish
that you want indexed.

You may use swish's filter feature with the C<prog> method, but performance will be better if you
run filtering programs from within your external program.  See also F<filters/README> for an example
how to easily add document converstion and filtering into your Perl-based programs.

B<Notes when using -S prog on MS Windows>

Windows does not use the shebang (#!) line of a program to determine the program to run.  So, when running,
for example, a perl program you will need to specify the perl.exe binary as the program, and use the
C<SwishProgParameters> to name the file.

    IndexDir e:/perl/bin/perl.exe
    SwishProgParameters read_database.pl

Swish will replace the forward slashes with backslashes before running the command specified with
C<IndexDir>.  Swish uses the popen(3) command which passes the command through the shell.
    

=back


=item -f *indexfile* (index file)

If you are indexing, this specifies the file to save the generated index in,
and you can only specify one file.  See also B<IndexFile> in the L<configuration file|SWISH-CONFIG>.

If you are searching, this specifies the index
files (one or more) to search from. The default index file is index.swish-e in the current directory.

=item -c *file ...* (configuration files)

Specify the configuration file(s) to use for indexing.  This file contains many directives that
control how Swish-e proceeds.
See L<SWISH-CONFIG|SWISH-CONFIG> for a complete listing of configuration file directives.



Example:

    swish-e -c docs.conf


If you specify a directory to index, an index file, or the verbose option on the command-line,
these values will override any specified in the configuration file.

You can specify multiple configuration files.  For example, you may have one configuration file
that has common site-wide settings, and another for a specific index.

Examples:

    1) swish-e -c swish-e.conf
    2) swish-e -i /usr/local/www -f index.swish-e -v -c swish-e.conf
    3) swish-e -c swish-e.conf stopwords.conf

=over 3

=item 1

The settings in the configuration file will be used to index a site.

=item 2

These command-line options will override anything in the configuration file.

=item 3

The variables in swish-e.conf will be read, then the variable in stopwords.conf will be read.
Note that if the same variables occur in both files, older values may be written over.

=back

=item -e (economy mode)

For large sites indexing may require more RAM than is available.  The C<-e> switch tells swish to use
disk space to store data structures while indexing, saving memory.  This option is recommended if
swish uses so much RAM that the computer begins to swap excessively, and you cannot increase available
memory.  The trade-off is slightly longer indexing times, and a busy disk drive.  

=item -l (symbolic links)

Specifying this option tells swish to follow symbolic links when indexing.
The configuration file value B<FollowSymLinks> will override the command-line value.

The default is not to follow symlinks.  A small improvement in indexing time my result
from enabling FollowSymLinks since swish does not need to stat every directory and file
processed to determine if it is a symbolic link.

=item -N path (index only newer files)

The C<-N> option takes a path to a file, and only files I<newer> than the specified
file will be indexed.  This is helpful for creating incremental indexes -- that is,
indexes that contain just files added since the last full index was created of all files.

Example (bad example)

    swish-e -c config.file -N index.swish-e -f index.new
   
This will index as normal, but only files with a modified date newer
than F<index.swish-e> will be indexed.

This is a bad example because it uses F<index.swish-e> which one might assume
was the date of last indexing.  The problem is that files might have been added
between the time indexing read the directory and when the F<index.swish-e> file
was created -- which can be quite a bit of time for very large indexing jobs.

The only solution is to prevent any new file additions while full indexing is running.
If this is impossible then it will be slightly better to do this:

Full indexing:

    touch indexing_time.file
    swish-e -c config.file -f index.tmp
    mv index.tmp index.full

Incremental indexing:

    swish-e -c config.file -N indexing_time.file -f index.tmp
    mv index.tmp index.incremental

Then search with

    swish-e -w foo -f index.full index.incremental

or merge the indexes

    swish-e -M index.full index.incremental index.tmp
    mv index.tmp index.swish-e
    swish-e -w foo


=item -v [0|1|2|3] (verbosity level)

The C<-v> option can take a numerical value from 0 to 3.
Specify 0 for completely silent operation and 3 for detailed reports.

If no value is given then 1 is assumed.
See also B<IndexReport> in the L<configuration file|SWISH-CONFIG>.

Warnings and errors are reported regardless of the verbosity level.  In addition,
all error and warnings are written to standard out.  This is for historical reasons (many
scripts exist that parse standard out for error messages).

=back

=head1 SEARCHING

The following command line arguments are available when searching with Swish-e.  These switches are used
to select the index to search, what fields to search, and how and what to print as results.

This section just lists the available command line arguments and their usage.
Please see L<SWISH-SEARCH|SWISH-SEARCH> for detailed searching instructions.

B<Warning>: If using Swish-e via a CGI interface, please see L<CGI Danger!|SWISH-SEARCH/"CGI Danger!">

Security Note: If the swish binary is named F<swish-search> then swish will not allow any operation that
would cause swish to write to the index file.

=head2 Searching Command Line Arguments

=over 4

=item -w *word1 word2 ...*  (query words)

This performs a case-insensitive search using a number of keywords.
If no index file to search is specified (via the C<-f> switch), swish-e will try to search a file called
index.swish-e in the current directory.

    swish-e -w word

Phrase searching is accomplished by placing the quote delimiter (a double-quote by default) around
the search phrase.

    swish-e -w 'word or "this phrase"'

Search would should be protected from the shell by quotes.  Typically, this is single quotes when
running under Unix.

Under Windows F<command.com> you may not need to use quotes, but you will need to
backslash the quotes used to delimit phrases:

    swish-e -w \"a phrase\"

The phrase delimiter can be set with the C<-P> switch.

The search may be limited to a I<MetaName>.
For example:

    swish-e -w meta1=(foo or baz)

will only search within the B<meta1> tag.

Please see L<SWISH-SEARCH|SWISH-SEARCH> for a description of MetaNames



=item -f *file1 file2 ...* (index files)

Specifies the index file(s) used while searching.  More than one file may be listed, and each
file will be searched.  If no C<-f> switch is specified then the file F<index.swish-e> in the current
directory will be used as the index file.

=item -m *number* (max results)

While searching, this specifies the maximum number of results to return.
The default is to return all results.

This switch is often used in conjunction with the C<-b> switch to return results one
page at a time (strongly recommended for large indexes).

=item -b *number* (beginning result)

Sets the I<begining> search result to return (records are numbered from 1).  This switch can be used
with the C<-m> switch to return results in groups or pages.

Example:

    swish-e -w 'word' -b 1 -m 20    # first 'page'
    swish-e -w 'word' -b 21 -m 20   # second 'page'

=item -t HBthec (context searching)

The C<-t> option allows you to search for words that exist only
in specific HTML tags. Each character in the string you
specify in the argument to this option represents a
different tag in which to search for the word. H means all HEAD
tags, B stands for BODY tags, t is all TITLE tags, h is H1
to H6 (header) tags, e is emphasized tags (this may be B, I,
EM, or STRONG), and c is HTML comment tags

search only in header (<H*>) tags

    swish-e -w word -t h

=item -d *string* (delimiter)

Set the delimiter used when printing results.  By default, Swish-e separates the output fields by a
space, and places double-quotes around the document title.  This output may be hard to parse, so it
is recommended to use C<-d> to specify a character or string used as a separator between fields.

The string C<dq> means "double-quotes".

    swish-e -w word -d ,    # single char
    swish-e -w word -d ::   # string
    swish-e -w word -d '"'  # double quotes under Unix
    swish-e -w word -d \"   # double quotes under Windows
    swish-e -w word -d dq   # double quotes

The following control characters may also be specified: C<\t \r \n \f>.

=item -P *character*

Sets the delimiter used for phrase searches.  The default is double quotes C<">.

Some examples under bash: (be careful about you shell metacharacters)

    swish-e -P ^ -w 'title=^words in a phrase^'
    swish-e -P \' -w "title='words in a pharse"'


=item -p *property1 property2 ...*  (display properties)

This causes swish to print the listed property in the search results.  The properties
are returned in the order they are listed in the C<-p> argument.

Properties are defined by the B<ProperNames> directive in the configuration file (see L<SWISH-CONFIG|SWISH-CONFIG>)
and properties must also be defined in B<MetaNames>.  Swish stores the text of the meta name as a I<property>, and
then will return this text while searching if this option is used.

Properties are very useful for returning data included in a source documnet without having to re-read
the source document while searching.  For example, this could be used to return a short document description.
See also see B<Document Summeries> and L<PropertyNames|SWISH-CONFIG/"item_PropertyNames"> in L<SWISH-CONFIG|SWISH-CONFIG>.

To return the subject and category properties while indexing.

    swish-e -w word -p subject category

Properties are returned in double quotes.   If a property contains a double quote it is HTML escaped (&quot;).
See the C<-x> switch for a more advanced method of returning a list of properties.


NOTE: it is necessary to have indexed with the proper
PropertyNames directive in the user config file in order to
use this option.

=item -s *property [asc|desc] ...*  (sort)

Normally, search results are printed out in order of relevancy, with the most relevant listed first.
The C<-s> sort switch allows you to sort results in order of a specified I<property>, where a I<property>
was defined using the B<MetaNames> and B<PropertyNames> directives during indexing
(see L<SWISH-CONFIG|SWISH-CONFIG>).

The string passed can include the strings C<asc> and C<desc> to specify the sort order, and more than
one property may be specified to sort on more than one key.

Examples:

sort by title property ascending order

    -s title

sort descending by title, ascending by name

    -s title desc name asc

Note: Swish limits sort keys to 100 characters.  This limit can be changed
by changing MAX_SORT_STRING_LEN in src/config.h and rebuilding swish-e.

=item -L limit to a range of property values (Limit)

B<This is an experimental feature!>

The C<-L> switch can be used to limit search results to a range of property values

Example:

    swish-e -w foo -L swishtitle a m

finds all documents that contain the word C<foo>, and where the
document's title is in the range of C<a> to C<m>, inclusive.
By default, the case of the property is ignored, but this can be
changed by using L<PropertyNamesCompareCase|SWISH-CONFIG/"item_PropertyNamesCompareCase">
configuation directive.

Limiting may be done with user-defined properties, as well.

For example, if you indexed documents that contain a created timestamp in a meta tag:

    <meta name="created_on" content="982648324">

Then you tell Swish that you have a property called C<created_on>, and that
it's a timestamp.

    PropertyNamesDate created_on

After indexing you will be able to limit documents to a range of timestamps:

    -w foo -L created_on  946684800 949363199

will find documents containing the word foo and that have a created_on
date from the start of Jan 1, 2000 to the end of Jan 31, 2000.

Note: swish currently does not parse dates; Unix timestamps must be used.

Two special formats can be used:

    -L swishtitle <= m
    -L swishtitle >= m

Finds titles less than or equal, or grater than or equal to the letter C<m>.

This feature will not work with C<swishrank> or C<swishdbfile> properties.

This feature takes advantages of the pre-sorted tables built by swish during indexing to
make this feature fast while searching.  
You should see in the indexing output a line such as:

   6 properties sorted.

That indicates that six pre-sorted tables were built during indexing.   
By default, all properties are presorted while indexing.
What properties are pre-sorted can be controlled by the configuration parameter C<PreSortedIndex>.

Using the C<-L> switch on a property that was not pre-sorted will still work, but may be I<much>
slower during searching.

This is an experimental feature, and its use and interface are subject to change.

=item -x formatstring (extended output format)

The C<-x> switch defines the output format string.
The format string can contain plain text and property names (including swish-defined internal property names)
and is used to generate the output for every result.
In addition, the output format of the property name can be controlled with C-like printf format strings.
This feature overrides the cmdline switches C<-d> and C<-p>,
and a warning will be generated if C<-d> or C<-p> are used with C<-x>.

For example, to return just the title, one per line, in the search results:

    swish-e  -w ...   -x '<swishtitle>\n' ...

Note: the C<\n> may need to be protected from your shell.

See also L<ResultExtFormatName|SWISH-CONFIG/"item_ResultExtFormatName"> for a way to define I<named>
format strings in the swish configuration file.

B<Format of "formatstring":>

    "text<propertyname>text<propertyname fmt=propfmtstr>text..."


Where B<propertyname> is:

=over 4

=item *

the name of a user property as specified with the config file
directive "PropertyNames"

=item *

the name of a swish Auto property (see below).  These properties are
defined automatically by swish -- you do not need to specify them
with PropertyNames directive.  (This may change in the future.)

=back

propertynames must be placed within "E<lt>" and "E<gt>".

B<User properties:>

Swish-e allows you to specify certain META tags within your documents that can be used as B<document properties>.
The contents of any META tag that has been identified as a document property can be returned as
part of the search results.  Doucment properties must be defined while indexing using the B<PropertyNames>
configuration directive (see L<SWISH-CONFIG|SWISH-CONFIG/"item_PropertyNames">).

Examples of user-defined PropertyNames:

    <keywords>
    <author>
    <deliveredby>
    <reference>
    <id>


B<Auto properties:>

Swish defines a number of "Auto" properties for each document indexed.
These are available for output when using the C<-x> format.

    Name               Type     Contents
    --------------     -------  ----------------------------------------------
    swishreccount      Integer  Result record counter
    swishtitle         String   Document title
    swishrank          Integer  Result rank for this hit
    swishdocpath       String   URL or filepath to document
    swishdocsize       Integer  Document size in bytes
    swishlastmodified  Date     Last modified date of document
    swishdescription   String   Description of document (see:StoreDescription)
    swishdbfile        String   Path of swish database indexfile

The Auto properties can also be specified using shortcuts:

    Shortcut    Property Name        
    --------    --------------
      %c        swishreccount
      %d        swishdescription
      %D        swishlastmodified
      %I        swishdbfile
      %p        swishdocpath
      %r        swishrank
      %l        swishdocsize
      %t        swishtitle

For example, these are equivalent:

   -x '<swishrank>:<swishdocpath>:<swishtitle>\n'
   -x '%r:%p:%t\n'

Use a double percent sign "%%" to enter a literal percent sign in the output.


B<Formatstrings of properties:>

Properties listed in an C<-x> format string can include format control strings.
These "propertyformats" are used to control how the contents of the associated property are printed.
Property formats are used like C-language printf formats.
The property format is specified by including the attribute "fmt" within the property tag.

Format strings cannot be used with the "%" shortcuts described above.

General syntax:

    -x '<propertyname fmt="propfmtstr">'

where C<subfmt> controls the output format of C<propertyname>.    

Examples of property format strings:

        date type:    <swishlastmodified fmt="%d.%m.%Y">
        string type:  <swishtitle fmt="%-40.35s">
        integer type: <swishreccount fmt=/%8.8d/>

Please see the manual pages for strftime(3) and sprintf(3) for an explanation of
format strings.  Note: some versions of strftime do not offer the %s format string
(number of seconds since the Epoch), so swish provides a special format string "%ld"
to display the number of seconds since the Epoch.

The first character of a property format string defines the delimiter for the format string.
For example,

    -x  "<author  fmt=[%20s]> ...\n"
    -x  "<author  fmt='%20s'> ...\n"
    -x  "<author  fmt=/%20s/> ...\n"


B<Standard predefined formats:>

If you ommit the sub-format, the following formats are used:

    String type:       "%s"  (like printf char *)
    Integer type:      "%d"  (like printf int)
    Float type:        "%f"  (like printf double) 
    Date type:         "%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S" (like strftime)
                                   

B<Text in "formatstring" or "propfmtstr":>

Text will be output as-is in format strings (and property format strings).
Special characters can be escaped with a backslash.
To get a new line for each result hit, you have to include
the Newline-Character "\n" at the end of "fmtstr".

    -x "<swishreccount>|<swishrank>|<swishdocpath>\n"
    -x "Count=<swishreccount>, Rank=<swishrank>\n"
    -x "Title=\<b\><swishtitle>\</b\>"
    -x 'Date: <swishlastmodified fmt="%m/%d/%Y">\n'
    -x 'Date in seconds: <swishlastmodified fmt=/%ld/>\n'

B<Control/Escape charcters:>

you can use C-like control escapes in the format string:

   known controls:      \a, \b, \f, \n, \r, \t, \v,
   digit escapes:       \xhexdigits   \0octaldigits
   character escapes:   \anychar  

Example,

    swish -x "%c\t%r\t%p\t\"<swishtitle fmt=/%40s/>\"\n"

B<Examples of -x format strings:>

    -x "%c|%r|%p|%t|%D|%d\n"
    -x "%c|%r|%p|%t|<swishdate fmt=/%A, %d. %B %Y/>|%d\n"
    -x "<swishrank>\t<swishdocpath>\t<swishtitle>\t<keywords>\n
    -x "xml_out: \<title\><swishtitle>\>\</title\>\n"
    -x "xml_out: <swishtitle fmt='<title>%s</title>'>\n"

=item -H [0|1|2|3|<n>]  (header output verbosity)

The C<-H n> switch generates extened I<header> output.  This is most useful when searching more than one
index file at a time by specifying more than one index file with the C<-f> switch.
C<-H 2> will generate a set of headers specific to each index file.
This gives access to the settings used to generate each index file.

Even when searching a single index file, C<-H n> will provided additional information about the index file,
how it was indexed, and how swish is interperting the query.

    -H 0 : print no header information, output only search result entries.
    -H 1 : print standard result header (default).
    -H 2 : print additional header information for each searched index file.
    -H 3 : enhanced header output (e.g. print stopwords).
    -H 9 : print diagnostic information in the header of the results (changed from: C<-v 4>)


=back


=head1 OTHER SWITCHES

=over 4

=item -V (version)

Print the current version.

=item -k *letter* (print out keywords)

The C<-k> switch is used for testing and will cause swish to print out all keywords
in the index beginning with that letter.  You may enter C<-k '*'> to generate a list of all words indexed
by swish.

=item -D *index file*  (debug index)

The -D option is no longer supported in version 2.2.

=item -T *options* (trace/debug swish)

The -T option is used to print out information that may be helpful when debugging swish-e's
operation.  This option replaced the C<-D> option of previous versions.

Running C<-T help> will print out a list of available *options*


=back

=head1 Merging Index Files

In previous versions of Swish-e indexing would require a very large amount of memory and the indexing
process could be very slow.  Merging provided a way to index in chunks and then combine the indexes together
into a single index.

Indexing is much faster now and uses much less memory, and with the C<-e> switch very little memory is
needed to index a large site.

Still, at times it can be useful to merge different index files into one file for searching.
This could be because you want to keep separate site indexes and a common one for a global search, or
you have separate collections of documents that you wish to search all at one time, but manage separately.

=over 4

=item -M *index1 index2 ... indexN out_index

Merges the indexes specified on the command line -- the last file name entered is the output file.
The output index must not exist (otherwise merge will not proceed).

Only indexes that were indexed with common settings may be merged.
(e.g. don't mix stemming and non-stemming indexes, or indexes with different WordCharacter settings, etc.).

Use the C<-e> switch while merging to reduce memory usage.

Merge generates progress messages regardless of the setting of C<-v>.

=item -c *configuration file*

Specify a configuration file while indexing to add administrative information to the output index file.

=back

=head1 Document Info

$Id$

.




