=head1 NAME

SWISH-BUGS - List of bugs known in Swish-e

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This file contains a list of bugs reported or known in Swish-e.  If
you find a bug listed here you do not need to report it as a bug.  But feel
free to bug the developers about it on the Swish-e discussion list.


=head1 Bugs in Swish-e version 2.2

=over 4

=item * Character Encodings

The XML parser (Expat) returns UTF-8 data to swish-e.  Therefore, the XML
parser should only be used for parsing US-ASCII encoded text.

The XML2 & HTML2 parsers (Libxml2) converts characters from UTF-8 to 8859-1 encodings before indexing
and writing properties.  Indexing non-8859-1 data may result in invalid character mappings.

These issues will be resolved soon.

=item *

Phrase search failes with DoubleMetaphone

DoubleMetaphone searching can produce two search words for a single query
word.  The words are expanded to (word1 OR word2), but that fails in a
phrase query:   "some phrase (word1 or word2) here"

swish-e query parser is due for a rewrite, and this could be resolved then.

    Reported: August 20, 2002 - moseley

=item *

Merging

merge.c does not check for matching stopwords or buzzwords in each index.

History:

    Reported: September 3, 2002 - moseley


=item *

ResultSortOrder

ResultSort order is not used (and is not documented).  The problem is that
the data passed to Compare_Properties() does not have access to the
ResultSortOrder table.

=back

History:

    Reported: September 3, 2002 - moseley



=head1 Document Info

$Id$

.



