=head1 NAME

INSTALL - SWISH-E Installation Instructions

=head1 SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS

SWISH-E 2.0 is written in C, and, up to this time, it has been tested on
Solaris 2.6, AIX 4.3.2, RedHat Linux 6.2 and Win32 platforms (thanks to 
David Norris for his work).  As you might guess, a C compiler is needed.  Pretty 
much any standard compiler should do.  Tested compilers include:

  gcc version 2.8.1 (Solaris 2.6)
  gcc version 2.95.1 (Solaris 2.6)
  gcc version 2.95.2 (AIX)
  gcc version egcs-2.91.66 (Linux)

David Norris has built a Win32 version with MS Visual C 6.0.  Please see
http://www.webaugur.com/wares/swish.

The HTTP file access method uses a Perl helper script that requires
the LWP, HTTP, and HTML modules. (Note: depending on your perl installation, you might need to
install additional modules required by LWP; for requirements and
downloads check http://www.cpan.org or http://theory.uwinnipeg.ca/search/cpan-search.html).
It was tested with Perl 5.005 although should probably work with any version 5 release.

=head2 Platform Specific Information

A tip from Wil Vree about compiling with a Sun C compiler:
In the Makefile the following two options need to be modified

    CC = /opt/SUNWspro/bin/cc
    CFLAGS= -xO2

=head1 INSTALLATION

If you are reading this INSTALL document then you probably already have
downloaded and unpacked the distribution.  But just in case...

=head2 Downloading and unpacking and building

Make sure you are using the current
stable release from http://sunsite.berkeley.edu/SWISH-E/.  How you download is up to you:
lynx, lwp-download, wget are all common methods.

=over 3

=item 1 Uncompress the distribution file

   gzip -dc swish-e.x.x.tar.gz | tar xof -

or on some versions of tar, simply

   tar zxof swish-e.x.x.tar.gz

Uncompressing should create the following directories:   

   swish-e-x.x/       (documentation and configure script)
   swish-e-x.x/src/   (source code)
   swish-e-x.x/conf/  (sample configuration file and stopword files)
   swish-e-x.x/test/  (test.html sample)
   swish-e-x.x/perl/  (perl interface to the SWISH-E library)
   swish-e-x.x/filter-bin/  (filter samples form Rainer Scherg)
   swish-e-x.x/html   (HTML version of the documentation)
   swish-e-x.x/doc    (directory used or building the documentation)


=item 2 Make any needed changes in F<src/config.h>

Compile-time configuration settings are adjusted in the file F<src/config.h>.
Many of the settings may also be specified in the configuration file used during
indexing.  You probably will not need to change this file, but it's helpful to become
familiar with the default compiled-in settings.

=item 3 Build SWISH-E

In the swish-e-x.x/ top level directory type the following commands

   ./configure
   make
   make test

This will create the swish-e executable F<src/swish-e> and test that the
executable is working correctly.  C<make test> will generate an index file
in the F<tests> directory and run a number of searches against this index.

You may optionally "build" the F<swish-search> executable.  This is a
version of swish-e that cannot write to the index file.  This version
may provide improved security in a CGI environment.  The binaries F<swish-e> and
F<swish-search> are the same files -- the additional security is enabled when the
binary is named I<swish-search>.

Again, this is an optional step:

   make swish-search

This simply copies the file F<swish-e> to F<swish-search>.

=item 4 Install swish-e

Move the F<swish-e> (and/or F<swish-search>) executable to its final location
(normally /usr/local/bin).  You may simply copy the program anywhere you see fit,
or you may use the C<make install> command to install it to the location defined
by the F<configure> script:

You may need to su root.

   su root
   make install
   exit

The bin directory may be set when first running ./configure. For example:

   ./configure --bindir=$HOME/bin

sets the installation directory to F<$HOME/bin> and C<make install> will install the
program in that location.

=back   

=head2 Installing the SWISH-E C Library

Swish 2.1 creates the C library F<libswish-e.a> during the build.  You should install this
library if you wish to embed SWISH-E into another application.  For example,
the library should be installed before using the high level Perl SWISH modules located
on CPAN. http://search.cpan.org/search?mode=module&query=SWISH

To install the library issue the following commands (again, you may need to su root)

   su root
   make install-lib
   exit

By default this will install the library in /usr/local/lib, but this directory can be set when
running ./configure with the --libdir option.  For example:

   ./configure --bindir=$HOME/bin --libdir=$HOME/lib

So C<make install> will install the F<swish-e> binary in F<$HOME/bin> and C<make install-lib>
will install the F<libswish-e.a> library in F<$HOME/lib>.


=head1 BASIC CONFIGURATION AND USAGE

This section should give you a basic overview of indexing and searching with B<SWISH-E>.

SWISH-E reads a configuration file (see L<SWISH-CONFIG|SWISH-CONFIG>) for directives that control
what and how SWISH-E indexes files.  Then running SWISH-E is controlled by command line arguments
(see L<SWISH-RUN|SWISH-RUN>).

To try the examples below change to the F<tests> subdirectory of the distribution.  The tests will
use the *.html files in this directory when creating the test index.  You may wish to review these
*.html files to get an idea of the various native file formats that SWISH-E supports.

=head2 Step 1: Create a Configuration File

The configuration file controls what and how SWISH-E indexes.  The configuration file
consists of directives, comments and blank lines.  The configuration file can be
any name you like, but swish-e.conf is commonly used.

This example will work with the documents in the F<tests> directory.  You may wish to
review the F<tests/test.config> configuration file used for the C<make test> tests.

For example, a simple configuration file:

   F<swish-e.conf>

   # Example index file

   # Point to what to index
   # IndexDir can point to a directory or a file
   # Here's is pointing to the current directory
   IndexDir .

   # But only index the .html files
   IndexOnly .html

   # Show basic info while indexing
   IndexReport 1

And that's a simple configuration file.  The order of the directives is not important, but
currently each comment or directive must begin in column 1.
The complete list of all configuration file directives are described in L<SWISH-CONFIG|SWISH-CONFIG>.

=head2 Step 2: Index your Files

Now, change to the F<tests> directory and save the above example configuration file as F<swish-e.conf>.
Then run swish using the C<-c> switch to specify the name of the configuration file.

    ../src/swish-e -c swish-e.conf
    Indexing Data Source: "File-System"
    Indexing ...
    Removing very common words...
    no words removed.
    Writing main index...
    Writing header ...
    Writing index entries ...
    Writing stopwords ...
    57 unique words indexed.
    Writing file index...
    Writing file list ...
    Writing file offsets ...
    Writing MetaNames ...
    Writing Location lookup tables ...
    Writing offsets (2)...
    5 files indexed.
    Running time: Less than a second.
    Indexing done!

This created the index file F<index.swish-e>.  This is the default file name used
unless the B<IndexFile> directive is specified:

    IndexFile ./website.index

=head2 Step 3: Search

You specify your search terms with the C<-w> switch.  For example, to find the files that
contain the word B<sample>:

    ../src/swish-e -w sample
    # Swish-e format: 2.1
    # 
    # Name: (no name)
    # Saved as: index.swish-e
    # Counts: 57 words, 5 files
    # Indexed on: 13/12/2000 16:33:21 PST
    ... (a number of other headers snipped)
    #
    # Number of hits: 2
    1000 ./test_xml.html "If you are seeing this, the METATAG XML search was successful!" 159
    265 ./test.html "If you are seeing this, the test was successful!" 437
    .

So the word B<sample> was found in two documents.  The first number shown is the relevance or rank of
the search term, followed by the file containing the search term, the title of the document, and finally
the length of the document.

=head2 Phrase Searching

To search for a phrase in a document use double-quotes to delimit your search term.  (The phrase
delimiter is set in F<src/swish.h>.)

For example:

    ../src/swish-e -w '"This is sample"'

    # Number of hits: 1
    1000 ./test.html "If you are seeing this, the test was successful!" 437

Note that the double quotes must be protected from the shell by using single quotes.

B<** Single quotes don't work on DOS, right David?>

=head2 Boolean Searching

You can use the Boolean operators B<and>, B<or>, or B<not> in searching.
Without these Boolean, SWISH-E will assume you're B<and>ing the words together.

Here are some examples:

    ../src/swish-e -w 'apples oranges'
    ../src/swish-e -w 'apples or oranges'  ( Same thing )
    ../src/swish-e -w 'apples or oranges'

    ../src/swish-e -w 'smilla and snow not sense' -f myIndex 

retrieves first the files that contain both the words "smilla" and "snow";
then among those the ones that do not contain the word "sense" 

=head2 Context Searching

The C<-t> option in the search command line allows you to search for words that exist only in specific HTML tags.
Each character in the string you specify in the argument to this option represents a different tag in which
the word is searched; that is you can use any combinations of the following charactes:

    H means all <HEAD> tags
    B stands for <BODY> tags
    t is all <TITLE> tags
    h is <H1> to <H6> (header) tags
    e is emphasized tags (this may be <B>, <I>, <EM>, or <STRONG>)
    c is HTML comment tags (<!-- ... -->)

For example:

    # Find only documents with the word "linux" in the E<lg>TITLEE<gt> tags.
    ./swish-e -w linux -t t

    # Find the word "apple" in titles or comments
    ./swish-e -w apple -t tc


=head2 META Tags

For the last example we will instruct swish to use META tags to define I<fields> in
your documents.  Once META names are defined you can specify to search just these areas of your documents.
META tags can have three formats:

    <META NAME="keyName" CONTENT="some Content">
    <!-- META START NAME="keyName" --> some Content <!-- META END -->

And in XML format

    <keyName>
        Some Content
    </keyName>


To continue with our sample F<swish-e.conf> file, add the following lines:

    # Define META tags
    MetaNames meta1 meta2 meta3

Reindex to include the changes:

    ../src/swish-e -c swish-e.conf

Now search, but this time limit your search to META tag "meta1":

    ../src/swish-e -w 'meta1=metatest1'

Again, please see L<SWISH-RUN|SWISH-RUN> and L<SWISH-CONFIG|SWISH-CONFIG> for complete
documentation of the various indexing and searching options.

=head1 QUESTIONS AND TROUBLESHOOTING

Support for installation, configuration and usage is available via the SWISH-E
discussion list.  Visit http://sunsite.berkeley.edu/SWISH-E/ for information.
Please search the SWISH-E list archive before posting, and check the L<SWISH-FAQ|SWISH-FAQ> to
see if your question hasn't already been asked.


=head1 Document Info

$Id$

.



