=head1 NAME

The SWISH-E README File

=head1 What is SWISH-E?

SWISH-E is B<S>imple B<W>eb B<I>ndexing B<S>ystem for B<H>umans - B<E>nhanced.
With it, you can quickly and easily index directories of files or remote web sites and search the generated
indexes.

SWISH was created by Kevin Hughes to fill the need of the growing number of Web administrators on the
Internet - many of the indexing systems were not well documented, were hard to use and install,
and were too complex for their own good. The system was widely used for several years,
long enough to collect some bug fixes and requests for enhancements.

In Fall 1996, The Library of UC Berkeley received permission from Kevin Hughes to implement bug fixes and
enhancements to the original binary. The result is SWISH-Enhanced or SWISH-E, brought to you by the
SWISH-E Development Team.

=head2 Key features

=over 4

=item *

Quickly index a large number of documents in different formats
including text, html, and XML

=item *

Includes a web spider for indexing remote documents over HTTP

=item *

Use "filters" to index any type of file such as PDF, gzip, or Postscript

=item *

Document "properties" (some subset of the source document, usually
defined as a META or XML elements) may be stored in the index and
returned with search results

=item *

Document summaries can be returned with each search

=item *

Word stemming and soundex indexing

=item *

Phrase searching and wildcard searching

=item *

Results can be sorted by relevance or by any number of properties
in ascending or decending order

=item *

Limit searches to parts of documents such as certain HTML tags
(META, TITLE, comments, etc.) or to XML elements.

=item *

It's open source and FREE!  You can customize SWISH-E and you
can contribute your fancy new features to the project.

=back


=head1 Where do I get SWISH-E?

The current version of SWISH-E can be found at:

C<http://sunsite.berkeley.edu/SWISH-E/>

Please make sure you use a current version of swish-e.

Information about Windows binary distributions can also be
found at this site.



=head1 How do I read the SWISH-E documentation?

The SWISH-E documentation is in POD format.  POD documentation is displayed by
the `perldoc' command that is included with every Perl installation.
For example, to view the installation documentation for swish-e, type

   perldoc INSTALL

Check with your system administrator if this command is not available.

Online documentation can be found at the SWISH-E web site listed above.
Optionally, if you have the pod2html utility on your system you can convert
the documentation into HTML format for viewing with a web browser.  Instructions
for converting the documentation can be found in INSTALL.

=head2  Included Documentation

The following documentation is included in this SWISH-E distribution:

=over 4

=item *

L<README|README> --  this file

=item *

L<INSTALL|INSTALL>  -- Installation and basic usage instructions

=item *

L<SWISH-INDEX|SWISH-INDEX> -- All about creating a SWISH-E index

=item *

L<SWISH-SEARCH|SWISH-SEARCH> --All about searching with SWISH-E

=item *

L<SWISH-FAQ|SWISH-FAQ> -- Common questions, and some answers

=item *

L<SWISH-FILTERS|SWISH-FILTERS> -- Using filters to index non-standard documents

=item *

L<SWISH-LIBRARY|SWISH-LIBRARY> -- Interface to the SWISH-E C library

=item *

L<SWISH-PERL|SWISH-PERL> -- Instructions for using the Perl library

=item *

L<CHANGES|CHANGES> -- List of feature changes and bug fixes

=back


=head1 Where do I get help with SWISH-E?

If you need help with installing or using SWISH-E please subscribe to
the SWISH-E mailing list.  See visit the SWISH-E web site listed above
for information on subscribing to the SWISH-E list.


=head1 Document revision

$Id$






