=head1 NAME

Proposed changes for SWISH-E 3.0

=head1 Overview

This pages is intended to give users of SWISH-E an idea of the changes to come, to foster
discussion of the direction of SWISH-E, and a place where developers can map out new ideas.

Most of this is just random notes that should be cleaned up!

=head1 Move from inverted index to a data base

Jose:

=head1 Index and Sort Numbers

Jose:

(Moseley: Dec 29, 2000)

I think this would be a great feature -- it would be nice be able to specify which tags are numeric.
Something like:

    MetaNames subject title name age
    PropertyNames name age
    NumericNames age

Then be able to select a range of numbers in a search, and sort numerically is the tag is also a property.

=head1 Switch to Content-Types

Moseley: Dec 28, 2000

I'm wondering if it might be smart to switch from the current "Document Types" to Content-Types.
Currently, swish know how to parse three types of documents TXT, HTML, and XML.  There's currently a new
configuration directives DefaultContents and IndexContents that map file extensions to one of the three
types.  This doesn't really work when spidering since it's the content-type that describes the document and not
the file extension.

It's an issue that can wait, but I'm concerned about backward compatiblity before people start using
the IndexContents and DefaultContents config directives and then we change to content-type in the future.
There's probably not that many people using those, but it might be work noting in the documentation that
it will change, if we agree.

The main reason to use content-type instead is for http processig where you can't depend on the
file extension to determine the document type, so with http we have to use content-type to determine
how to deal with the file.
The other reason to changes it is to break down the differences between http and file system modes of indexing.

This would, of course, lead to other issues -- like dealing with IndexOnly so that it might
be a big enough change that it also needs to wait until a later version (version 3.0?).
But it should be something we think about, and make note of in the documentation.

Again, I'd propose that swish uses a mime.types file to map from extension to content-type.
You could add or override mappings in the config file:

   AddType text/plain .doc .log

   DefaultType text/html  # like DefaultContents currently

The file source "plug-in" (whatever that ends up being) would return a content-type,
but if not returned then swish would map the type from the file name using the mime.types
file or any AddType directives.

Again, internally swish only knows about text/[TXT|HTML|XML], so there should be a way to map other types,
otherwise swish might ignore the file.  We could continue to use the three type names or switch completely to
content-types.

For example, if we continued to use [TXT|HTML|XML]

    MapType TXT  text/directory text/logfile
    MapType HTML text/html

Would tell swish that those types are handled by those internal handlers.

Then as I've mentioned before, you might specify filters as such

   FilterDocument application/msword /path/to/word-to-text

And word-to-text would convert to text and return one of the
three content-types that Swish knows how to parse,
or a different content type if were to chain filters.


=head1 Document Source Feature

Moseley: Dec 28, 2000

First, I'd like to see the http part of swish moved out of the program, and instead design
a fast way for external programs to provide documents to swish.  Spidering is too complicated
to be done internally, and is not really what swish does at its core.  No doubt that the swish package
should provide spidering, but in a different way.

So, I'd like to be able to specify to swish a program, and that program returns the documents to swish to index,
just as if swish was accessing the documents via http.  For example, the program would return headers followed by
the document content.

    File-Name: docs/index.html
    Last-Modified: Fri, 22 Dec 2000 01:07:19 GMT
    Content-Length: 10483
    Content-Type: text/html
    <blank line>
    <document contents>

This could be any program -- one that spiders a number of servers at the same time, or one that uncompresses
local files before passing to swish.

Then the IndexDir command would list directories and/or files, and if a file is an exectable program then
swish runs and accepts documents from that program.

    # Index /usr/doc and spider our other server
    IndexDir /usr/doc /usr/local/bin/swish-spider

The program could be passed the path to the current configuration file swish is using.

(BTW -- It might be nice to be able to say don't recurse directories: /usr/doc recurses where
/usr/doc/ doesn't recurse.  Now that would be confusing!)

Also B<NoContents> could use content-types and not be limited to just the file
system indexing mode.

    NoContents image/gif
    

=head1 Fast Filters

Moseley: Dec 28, 2000

Find a way to create filtrers that can act as servers and be left in memory.  Leave the current filter system
in place for smaller indexes.  Using sockets may be the most portable method.  Could provide a perl module
to make it simple to create filters.

    FilterDocument  /path/to/filter application/gzip application/zip

Any documents that are returned to swish of those content-types would be passed to the filter program.
The protocol would look a lot like http, where swish sends headers and content, and returns headers and content.
The content could be passed onto other filters.  If the content-type returned matches one of the MapType assigned
content types then the swish internal parser would accept the document for indexing.
    
Perhaps the FilterDocument directive would be listed in order to allow chaining, but prevent loops.

=head1 Convert all Meta data to Meta Names

Moseley: Jan 1, 2001

Swish currently returns a file name, file size (or content-length) in search results.  This is called I<Meta Data>
as it's information about (or that describes) the document.
There are and will be new Meta Data added as time goes on.  For example, the Last Modified Date is currently being
added to 2.1.

The problem with this is how to return this data in query results -- if the standard output from swish-e changes
with a new version that means any program parsing the results must also be changed.

Swish 2.1 has an c<-x> switch to report I<extended> output in search results, but again once someone starts to
use -x in a CGI script then that script will break if a new feature is added.

Currently in swish documents may contain meta tagged content:

    <subjects>
          Food | Drinks | Recipes
    </subjects>

    <summary>
        The art of making good food and drinks, and lists many recipies.
    </summary>

This is also Meta Data since it's information about the document.    

By using

    MetaNames subjects summary

you can search for words or phrases just within those meta fields.

By also using

    PropertyNames subjects summary

you can also return the contents of those meta tags in a search by using the C<-p> switch.

Search results may also be sorted by PropertyNames.

My proposal is to use the existing swish framework of B<MetaNames> and B<PropertyNames> to handle meta data that's
currently available only in swish results (rank, file name, file size).  The difference is that we
assign "internal" meta names to this data.

For example, SWISH_FILENAME could the be meta name used for the name of the file:

    MetaNames SWISH_FILENAME

    swish-e -w SWISH_FILENAME=(html/index*)

Or SWISH_LAST_MODIFIED_SEC could be used for sorting results

    PropertyNames SWISH_LAST_MODIFIED_SEC category

    swish-e -w foo -s category asc SWISH_LAST_MODIFIED_SEC desc

If PropertyNames directive was enhanced to be able to limit the number of characters stored, optionally
extract text from HTML, and was able to define what type of docs (text, XML, HTML) it applied to, then
the existing PropertyNames feature would work like the new StoreDescription feature but be useful for more than
just one use.

I'm not clear how to enhance the syntax of Properties and/or Metanames, but here's some ideas:

=over 4

=item *

to specify an upper limit on how many characters to store

    PropertyNames meta1 desc:50

That gets all of meta1 and only 50 chars of desc.    

=item *

to limit to certain types of files

    PropertyNames meta1 desc:50/HTML summary/XML

=item *

to extract the text from html (remove html tags)

    PropertyNames desc:50/HTML:text

(ok, that's ugly, but you get the idea)

=item *

to read text documents where there are not tags:

    PropertyNames  desc:50/HTML:text desc:50/TXT

Where desc is a meta name invented for storing the first 50 chars of the
text files.

=back    

Also, it might be I<nice> to be able to B<alias> meta names so that, say, XML and HTML could have differently named
meta tags associated with the same meta tag name.

I'm not clear the best way to make an alias:  One way would be to extend the current MetaName syntax:

    MetaNames meta1 meta2 meta2=desc:HTML meta2=summary:XML

So that swish-e -w meta2=(foo) would find foo in the desc meta tag in HTML docs, and find
foo in the <summary> tag(sic) in XLM documents.

Or another way would be to create a new directive

    AliasMeta meta2=desc:HTML,summary:XML meta3=subject:HTML,type:XML

But I like extending existing syntax than adding new syntax.
Less chance for errors and keeps settings together in the same place.    


The advantages of all this are:

=over 4

=item *

new internal meta data tags can be added without having to change the
output from swish results and therefore without changing any CGIs

=item *

uses existing code to implement, and existing interface to use

=item *

user can decide which meta data to include in an index which might be helpful
for really large sites where index size is important

=item *

can search by the meta data, just like existing <meta> tagged content

=item *

can sort results by all meta data, not just <meta> tags in documents.

=item *

can be used to implement the StoreDescription feature insead of creating a new feature.

=back




=head1 Document Info

$Id$

.



