=head1 NAME

Perl Interface to the SWISH-E Library

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use SWISHE;

    my $indexfilename1 = '/path/to/index1.swish';
    my $indexfilename2 = '/path/to/index2.swish';

    # To search for several indexes just put them together
    $indexfiles = "$indexfilename1 $indexfilename2";

    my $handle = SwishOpen( $indexfiles )
        or die "Failed to open '$indexfiles'";

    # Get a few headers from the index files
    my @headers = qw/WordCharacters BeginCharacters EndCharacters/;
    for ( @headers ) {
        my @h = SwishHeaderParameter( $handle, $_ );
        print "$_ for index 0 is $h[0]\n",
              "$_ for index 1 is $h[1]\n\n";
    }


    # Now search
    $props = 'prop1 prop2 prop3';
    $sort  = 'prop1 asc prop2 desc';
    $query = 'meta1=metatest1';

    my $num_results = SwishSearch($handle, $query, 1, $props, $sort);

    unless ( $num_results ) {
        print "No Results\n";

        my $error = SwishError( $handle );
        print "Error number: $error\n" if $error;

        return;  # or next.
    }

    while( my($rank,$index,$file,$title,$summary,$start,$size,@props) = SwishNext( $handle )) {
        print join( ' ',
              $rank,
              $index,
              $file,
              qq["$title"],
              qq["$summary"],
              $start,
              $size,
              map{ qq["$_"] } @props,
              ),"\n";
    }

    # No more queries on these indexes
    SwishClose( $handle );


=head1 ABSTRACT

SWISHE version 2.1.x creates an archive library of the internal SWISHE C functions.
This perl module provides access to those functions by embedding the SWISHE search code in
your application.  The benefits are faster searches (no need to fork/execute an external program)
and avoids commonly used unsafe system calls.

This module provides direct access to the SWISHE C library functions.  For a higher level, object
oriented interface to SWISH visit http://search.cpan.org/search?mode=module&query=SWISH


=head1 INSTALLATION

Before you can build the perl module you must build and install SWISH-E.  Please read the
B<INSTALL> documentation included in the SWISHE distribution package.

    perldoc INSTALL

After building the SWISHE executable and successfully running make test, you will need to install
the SWISHE archive library.  This is done while in the top-level directory of the SWISHE distribution.

    % su root
    % make install-lib
    % exit

B<Jose: What's the best way to install if the user doesn't have root access? Set LD_LIBRARY_PATH??>

This will install the archive library (F<libswish-e.a>) into /usr/local/lib by default.

Next, build the perl module.

    % cd perl
    % perl Makefile.PL
    % make
    % make test
    % su root
    % make install
    % exit

If you do not have root access you can instead use

    % perl Makefile.PL PREFIX=/path/to/my/local/perl/library

And then in your perl script:

    use lib '/path/to/my/local/perl/library';


To test it you can run the test.pl script.  Type "./test.pl" at your command prompt.
This perl script uses the index file built by the "make test" command used during the build
of SWISHE as described in the B<INSTALL> document.

=head1 FUNCTION DESCRIPTIONS

The following describes the perl interface to the SWISHE C library.

=over 4

=item B<$handle = SwishOpen( $IndexFiles );>

Open one or more index files and returns a handle.

    Examples:

        $handle = SwishOpen( 'index_file.idx' );

        # open two indexes
        $handle = SwishOpen( 'index1.idx index2.idx' );

B<Question: How do you get the error string if this fails?>


=item B<SwishClose( $handle );>

Closes the handle returned by SwishOpen.  
Closes all the opened files and frees the used memory.

B<Question: Is there a return value?>

=item B<$num_results = SwishSearch($handle, $search, $structure, $properties, $sortspec);>

Returns the number of hits, zero for no results, or a negative number.  If zero SwishError( $handle ) will return the error code.
A typical error code would be -10 (WORD_NOT_FOUND).

B<Is this true?>

The values passed are:

=over 2

=item *

$handle is the handle returned by SwishOpen

=item *

$search is the search string.

Examples:
    my $query = 'title="this a is phrase"';
    my $query = '(title="this phrase") or (description=(these words))';

=item *

$structure is an integer value only applicable for an html search.  It defines
where in an html search to look.
It can be IN_FILE, IN_TITLE, IN_HEAD, IN_BODY, IN_COMMENTS, IN_HEADER or IN_EMPHASIZED or
or'ed combinations of them (e.g.: IN_HEAD | IN_BODY).
Use IN_FILE (a value of 1) if your documents are not html. The numerical values for IN_FILE, IN_HEAD are in src/swish.h

=item *

$properties is a string with the properties to be returned separated by spaces.  Properties must
be defined during indexing.  See B<README-SWISHE> for more information.

Example:
    my $properties = 'subject description';

=item *

$sortspec is the sort spec if different from relevance.

Examples:
    my $sortspec = ''  # sort by relevance

    # sort first in ascending order by title,
    # then by other fields in descending order
    my $sortspec = 'title asc category desc category desc';

=back

B<QUESTION: Does this return a swish error, or do you have to call SwishError()?>

=item B<SwishNext( $handle )>

($rank, $indexfile, $filename, $title, $start, $size, @properties) = SwishNext( $handle );

This function returns the next hit of a search. Must be executed after SwishSearch to read the results.

=over 2

=item *

$rank - An integer from 1 to 1000 indicating the relevance of the result

=item *

$filename - The source filename

=item *

$title - The title as indexed (as found in the HTML E<lt>TITLEE<gt> section)

=item *

$start * - The starting position in the file of the record

=item *

$size - The length of the source document

=item *

@properties - The list of properties returned for this result.

=back

Example:

    while(($rank,$indexfile,$filename,$title,$start,$size,@properties)=SwishNext($handle)) {

        print join( ' ',
              $rank,
              $indexfile,
              $filename,
              qq["$title"],
              $start,
              $size,
              map{ qq["$_"] } @properties,
              ),"\n";
    }

=item B<$rc=SwishSeek($handle, $num);>

Repositions the pointer in the result list to the element pointed by num.
It is useful when you want to read only the results starting at $num (e.g. for showing
results one page at a time).

=item B<$rc=SwishError($handle);>

Returns the last error if any (always a negative value).
If there is not an error it will return 0.

B<Question: Should there be a way to return the error string?>

=item B<@ParameterArray=SwishHeaderParameter($handle,$HeaderParameterName);>

This function is useful to access the header data of the index files
Returns the contents of the requested header parameter of all index files
opened by SwishOpen in an array.

Example:

    @wordchars = SwishHeaderParameter( $handle, 'WordCharacters' );
    print "WordCharacters for index 0 = $wordchars[0]\n";
    print "WordCharacters for index 1 = $wordchars[1]\n";


Valid values for HeaderParameterName are:
    WordCharacters
    BeginCharacters
    EndCharacters
    IgnoreFirstChar
    IgnoreLastChar
    Indexed on
    Description
    IndexPointer
    IndexAdmin
    Stemming
    Soundex

=item B<@stopwords = SwishStopWords( $handle, $indexfilename );>

Returns an array containing all the stopwords stored in the index file pointed by $indexfilename
where $indexfilename must match one of the names used in SwishOpen.

Example:
    @stopwords = SwishStopWords( $handle, $indexfilename );
    print 'Stopwords: ',
          join(', ', @stopwords),
          "\n";

=item B<@keywords = SwishWords( $handle, $indexfilename, $c);>

Returns an array containing all the keywords stored in the index file pointed by
$indexfilename ($indexfilename must match one of the names used in SwishOpen)
and starting with the character $c.

Example:
    my $letter = 't';
    @keywords = SwishWords( $handle, $indexfilename, $letter);

    print "List of keywords that start with the letter '$letter':\n",
          join("\n", @keywords),
          "\n";

=item B<$stemword=SwishStem( $word );>

Returns the stemmed word preserving the original one.

Example:
    my $stemword = SwishStem( 'parking' );
    print $stem_word;     # prints park

=back

=head1 SUPPORT

Questions about this module and SWISHE should be posted to the SWISHE mailing list.
See http://sunsite.berkeley.edu/SWISH-E/.


=head1 AUTHOR

Jose Ruiz -- jmruiz@boe.es


=head1 SEE ALSO

http://sunsite.berkeley.edu/SWISH-E/

SWISH, SWISH::Library at your local CPAN site.


=head1 Document Info

$Id$

.


